you're one of the greatest con men of
all time you're the daddy of them all
what does it take to be a good con man
you know I have to smile because people
always say you're the greatest con man
or the greatest confidence man you know
I was a 16 year old boy who ran away
from home and ended up on the streets of
New York City and said okay how am I
going to survive now and I first
realized that I can't survive as a 16
year old I have to have people believe
I'm an adult so you know the first thing
I did was alter my driver's license to
make myself ten years older man and
started out with me more as survival how
am I going to survive so I started
writing checks and I found it very easy
to go in and cash checks two and a half
million dollars with a two and a half
million dollars but everything had a
purpose so you know I walk down the
street I saw an airline crew come out of
a hotel and at first I thought to myself
if I could get one of these uniforms
when I walk in a bank they'll be much
more apt to cash my check as this pilot
and then I got the uniform and I walked
up to a ticket counter one day and the
girl said to me are you flying or are
you paying or riding and I said I
wouldn't mean are you riding the jump
seat are you gonna buy the ticket I said
well no I'll ride the jump seat and then
I realized I could fly all over the
world for free and then I could stay in
the hotels as a crew member so
everything was just a step up for me I
saw up I was more of an opportunist
who saw things and then took advantage
of them you know it goes from survival
then people were chasing you so then
you're starting to say how do I stay
ahead of these people that are chasing
me and outsmarting them until it gets to
where you know you just get tired of
doing it and tired of running it and I
think in my case it was more about
maturity I started getting older and so
consequently I started realizing that's
not the way I want to live my life my
conscience started to bother me you
can't have a conscience and be a conman
as well you can't have a conscience and
be a conman and and you know you can
only change if you want to change so you
have to be willing to want to do that
and you can't expect someone else to do
it for you you have to do it and it's
not easy you got to change your life
when you actually doing it like babe
into riding a jumpsuit you know things
like that in those instances in those
moments they're amazingly brazen
audacious acts I mean where does
somebody find the inner confidence to do
and I and I truly believe looking back
on it now it that I truly believe I was
able to accomplish all those things
because I was just a teenage boy I had
no really conscience I had really no
fear of being caught I really didn't
care about consequences I was just a kid
I always believed had I been a little
older sad started doing that at 21 to 26
I wouldn't have done half the things
because I would have rationalized and
said you'll never get away with that no
one will believe you're a doctor or
you're a pilot or I would have probably
never done it but because I was a kid I
had this kids imagination that I can do
anything I can get away with anything or
at least I'm willing to try it and had
no fear of consequences so in my case it
wasn't that I was brilliant or that I
was a genius I think it was more about
the fact that I was very young and I
looked at it through the eyes of a kid
than the eyes of an adult
it was the naivety of years right yes a
good excuse yeah and even when I was
doing the things that I did I paid back
two million dollars of that money
because I hadn't spent it and then I
eventually paid the other half a million
dollars back only because I felt it was
right to pay all the money back but as a
kid I couldn't spend two million dollars
so it was never really the money it was
more of just going on the venture and
and doing it and seeing how much you
could get away with you know I would
just add that when I when I did all the
things I did one of the things that I
realized very quickly later on is that
all the people I met that I really never
did anything to in fact I took them
places I spent money on them I bought
them lots of things they were the people
most upset with me because those people
felt deceived that I thought you were my
friend and yet you weren't who you say
you would you didn't trust me enough to
tell me who you really were so it's kind
of like the people who say you know the
guy's got into my house but they didn't
steal anything but they went through all
my belongings that bothers them more
than if they had stolen something and I
had to come and realize that with
maturity that that's very devastating to
people hello I'm Liam Bartlett thanks
for watching so keep up with the latest
from 60 minutes Australia make sure you
subscribe to our channel you can also
download the
now app for full episodes and other
exclusive 60 minutes content